# Overview

New Light Technologies is an organization founded in 2003. After over a decade of research, New Light developed a carbon capture technology able to produce high-performance bioplastics from carbon emissions. Their mission is to replace oil-based plastics with greenhouse gas-based bioplastics on a global scale, moving oil out of the world’s products, reducing material production costs, and reducing the amount of carbon in the air on a market-driven basis. They also do contracting work with various organizations, including FEMA (the Federal Emergency Management Agency), the U.S. Census Bureau, and The World Bank.

They provided this problem statement regarding emergency preparedness and economic analysis:

  "Prior to and during a disaster, it is important to understand the projected and actual effects of the event on the community, including its economic effects on critical services. FEMA has identified seven “lifelines” that require attention during a disaster: (1) safety and security; (2) Food, water, sheltering; (3) Health and medical; (4) Energy (power, fuel); (5) Communications; (6) Transportation; (7) hazardous waste. This tool will utilize Yelp to estimate the effects of the event on each of the seven lifelines. This can include the number of businesses or services in each category or even, if available, their status (if provided by users and reviews in Yelp). The tool will search for relevant data and categorize it according to a list of impacted neighborhoods or a list of affected zip codes. It will provide an estimation of the potential impact of the event, at least according to the data available in Yelp."

The notebook in this repo uses Miami, Florida as an example of how the information on the Yelp API can be used to categorize businesses by the lifelines listed above.
